# MetabolicVulnerabilitiesTNBC
Genome-scale metabolic modeling identifies metabolic vulnerabilities that can be targeted for triple-negative breast cancer treatment 

## Abstract
Among women, breast cancer is the most common malignancy worldwide, with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) having the worst prognosis across all subtypes. Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer to support rapid proliferation and cancer survival. Given the lack of targeted therapies for TNBC, this study aims to identify metabolic vulnerabilities that can be targeted to treat TNBC. We generated transformed MCF10A cells by inducible ectopic expression of MYC and mutant TP53, either alone or in combination, and characterized the metabolic phenotype in 2D and 3D culture. Ectopic expression of both MYC and mutant TP53 resulted in a 2.3-4.6 fold increase in growth rate in 3D culture, but not in 2D. We next determined exchange fluxes and found that ectopic expression of MYC and TP53 led to increased consumption of glucose and amino acids, and increased release of lactate. Next, genome-scale metabolic modeling was performed using growth rate and exchange fluxes as constraints. This approach revealed numerous significantly altered metabolic reactions, many related to central carbon metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and nucleotide metabolism. We identified intracellular reactions with significantly altered flux relative to the control condition that were common across transformed MCF10A cells, as well as cell line specific flux alterations. Many of these metabolic reactions have existing small molecule inhibitors, which can facilitate further experimental validation to evaluate their potential as targets for TNBC treatment. These targets may have important implications for the development of treatments against TNBC.
